Port 5/SECURE-TRANSPORT to vac research (#569)
vacp2p/rfc: content/docs/rfcs/54/README.md

---
slug: 54
title: 54/WAKU2-X3DH-SESSIONS
name: Session management for Waku X3DH 
status: stable
category: Standards Track
tags: waku-application
editor: Aaryamann Challani <aaryamann@status.im>
contributors:
- Andrea Piana <andreap@status.im>
- Pedro Pombeiro <pedro@status.im>
- Corey Petty <corey@status.im>
- Oskar Thorén <oskar@status.im>
- Dean Eigenmann <dean@status.im>
---

# Abstract

In [53/WAKU2-X3DH](/spec/53) we specified the `X3DH` protocol for end-to-end encryption. 

Once two peers complete an X3DH handshake, an X3DH session would be established.

> This RFC describes how to manage these sessions, including how to establish new ones, how to re-establish them, how to maintain them, and how to close them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document specifies how to manage sessions based on an X3DH key exchange;
including how to establish new ones, how to re-establish them, how to maintain them, and how to close them.

[53/WAKU2-X3DH](/spec/53) specifies the Waku `X3DH` protocol for end-to-end encryption. 
Once two peers complete an X3DH handshake, they should establish an X3DH session.
```

Reviewer: A suggestion to move this to a more spec parlance.
Feel free to change / adapt.
I'd first start with what this doc does, and then give more context in the next line.

Author: Addressed in [c7d35bd](https://github.com/vacp2p/rfc/pull/569/commits/c7d35bdd91d69e6fd2546edaa9afe9cd2253d6e5)

# Session Establishment

A node identifies a peer by their `installation-id` which MAY be interpreted as a device identifier.

## Initialization

A node initializes a new session once a successful X3DH exchange has taken place. 
Subsequent messages will use the established session until re-keying is necessary.

## Concurrent sessions

If a node creates two sessions concurrently between two peers, the one with the symmetric key first in byte order SHOULD be used, this marks that the other has expired.

## Re-keying

On receiving a bundle from a given peer with a higher version, the old bundle SHOULD be marked as expired and a new session SHOULD be established on the next message sent.

## Multi-device support

Multi-device support is quite challenging as there is not a central place where information on which and how many devices (identified by their respective `installation-id`) a peer has, is stored.

> Furthermore, account recovery always needs to be taken into consideration, where a user wipes clean the whole device and the nodes loses all the information about any previous sessions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Furthermore, account recovery always needs to be taken into consideration, where a user wipes clean the whole device and the node loses all the information about any previous sessions.
```

Author: Addressed in [c7d35bd](https://github.com/vacp2p/rfc/pull/569/commits/c7d35bdd91d69e6fd2546edaa9afe9cd2253d6e5)
